[Music]
all right listen up what to do if you or
someone starts choking now I want to pay
close attention to everything we're
about to show you so that you'll know
exactly what to do in all kinds of
choking emergencies and you're gonna
want to share this with your friends so
they might be able to help you in case
you're choking oh and don't forget to
subscribe to our Channel and turn on
post notifications to keep up with all
our important updates all right number
one assess the situation so first of all
determine if the airway obstruction is
partial or total this will allow you to
figure out what you should do to help
if the choking person can still speak
Koff or cry out
it means the airway obstruction is
partial the person can still breathe but
might get pale because breathing is
obviously restricted when the airway
obstruction is total the person won't be
able to respond to you cough or breathe
the victim will also likely grab at
their throat and their fingernails and
lips might start turning blue this is
all caused by the complete lack of
oxygen number two encourage them to
cough the right thing to do if the
blockage is partial tell the person to
cough coughing is the most effective way
to clear the Airways and push the stuck
piece of food out of the trachea the
best thing you can do in this situation
is to calm the person down reassure them
that everything's gonna be okay and
encourage them to cough the wrong thing
to do when some people are choking they
try to suppress a cough straighten out
their back and breathe through their
nose this is the worst thing you can do
in this situation
drinking something while choking isn't
the best idea give the victim a glass of
water once the throat is clear again
number three if the person can't cough
slap their back
the right thing to do if the victim
can't cough the first thing to do is
stand behind them and lean them forward
you can use your knee or the back of the
chair for support deliver up to five
strong blows between the shoulder blades
using the heel of your hand
be sure to direct the blows upwards
toward the victims mouth instead of
doing regular horizontal claps pause
after each blow to see if it worked this
should help kick the lodged object out
of the airway the wrong thing to do
never administer blows to a person who's
standing straight up and don't use your
fists this will only cause the piece of
food to fall deeper down and block the
Airways tightly if they start to cough
stop slapping their back number four if
the person can't breathe perform the
Heimlich maneuver the purpose of the
Heimlich maneuver is to push out the air
in the lungs that's not being used and
breathing it effectively drives out the
stuck object the right thing to do stand
behind the victim and put your arms
around their torso clinch one hand into
a fist and place it on their stomach
between the bellybutton and the lower
ribs then cup your other hand over your
fist now quickly thrust your fist up
toward the victims diaphragm several
times keep doing this until you've
cleared the airway the wrong thing to do
is don't slap the victim on the back it
can only make things worse
and make sure your arms aren't around
the person's ribs or else you risk
breaking them your arms should be below
the ribs instead number five helping an
unconscious person the right thing to do
is if the victim is passed out lay them
down on their back sit on their hips and
face them but one of your hands on top
of the other and place the base of your
palm between their belly button and
lower ribs vigorously push the abdomen
toward the diaphragm repeat this several
times until the airway is clear again if
the person doesn't start breathing once
the object has been removed it's time
for CPR
the wrong thing to do is do not keep the
victim in an upright position it's also
a terrible idea to start doing CPR
before you remove the blockage from the
trachea number six helping yourself now
if you're choking and starting to
suffocate but there's no one around to
help you can save your own life the
right thing to do start coughing and if
it doesn't help perform the Heimlich
maneuver on yourself to do this make a
fist and hit yourself in the area
between your belly button and lower ribs
drive your fist up and down in J shaped
motions if that doesn't help either bend
over a chair the corner of a table or
any other solid object at waist level
and push against it as hard as you can
keeping your arms stretched out in front
of you do this until the object becomes
dislodged wrong as impossible as it
might seem try not to panic the more you
panic the more air you let in through
your mouth an incoming air will only
push the stuck piece of food further in
do not stand straight up or hit yourself
on the chest or back number 7 helping
pregnant women and obese people to help
people who have a bigger belly like
pregnant women or obese individuals you
have to slightly modify the Heimlich
maneuver
place your hands as close to the abdomen
as possible higher than you normally
would
your hand should be right above the
victims lower ribs you won't be able to
do the regular upward thrusts so press
the chest really hard with quick thrusts
instead repeat this procedure until the
person stops choking but don't continue
if they become unconscious number 8
saving a choking infant
if the victim is less than a year old
lay them facedown on your forearm make
sure the head and neck are lower than
the torso and support the chin in your
hand make five quick blows right between
the infant's shoulder blades with the
heel of your hand if that doesn't help
get the stuck object out turn the baby
on its back use your hand to support the
head and neck which again should be
lower than the torso use two fingers to
make five quick thrusts right on the
breastbone if the baby starts coughing
stop and let it cuff up the object
number nine saving a choking child if
the victim is older than one year you
have to follow different rules to save
them stand behind the child or if
they're really small get on your knees
put your arms around the child's waist
clench one hand into a fist and place it
between the ribs and bellybutton with
your thumb upwards grasp your fist with
your other hand move your elbows to the
sides and press the child's stomach with
quick inward and upward thrusts number
10 saving an unconscious child if the
infant or child is unconscious try
laying them on their back first tilt the
head back by lifting the chin up now if
you see the object stuck in the back of
the throat use your fingers to remove it
if you've successfully removed the
object cover the child's mouth and nose
with your mouth and push air into their
lungs feel if the chest has started
moving and listen for breathing if the
child still isn't breathing or if you
were unable to dislodge the object from
the start begin chest compressions
remember for small children it'll be two
fingers pressed over the breastbone
start doing cycles of five compressions
and one breath call 911 yet and keep
doing CPR until they arrive
number eleven saving a choking dog to
help a dog in trouble first make sure
it's really choking and not suffering
from kennel cough or heart disease if
the dog is unable to swallow drooling
excessively coughing forcefully and
acting weirdly agitated it clearly means
the animal is actually choking if it's
still breathing alright but clearly has
an obstruction in its airway give it a
few minutes to try and COFF it out if
that doesn't help open the dog's mouth
with one hand on the upper jaw and the
other on the lower to avoid serious
injury to you cover the dog's teeth with
its lips while you grasp the jaws take a
flashlight and look as deep down his
throat as you can if you see something
blocking the airway carefully remove it
with a set of pliers if that doesn't
work try using back blocks the same
thrust between the shoulder blades with
the heel of your hand work for both
humans and dogs about 4 to 5 sharp blows
should be enough if and only if nothing
else helps administer the Heimlich
maneuver hold the dog around its waist
with its head pointed down make a fist
with one hand place it under the dog's
rib cage and cup it with your other hand
if your dog is small or medium sized use
two fingers instead of a fist repeat
sets of 3 to 5 inward and upward thrusts
be careful not to crack its ribs take
your dog to the vet for a health check
straight away even if you manage to
remove the blockage yourself so have you
ever helped someone who is choking was
it hard share with us in the comment
section like this video send it to your
friends and help spread the word
subscribe to our channel to not miss any
of our updates stay with us on the
bright side of life
[Music]
you